US 6,735,618 B2 - 6785618 : Has two different variable conditions present in text but do not get mentioned several times

Further it is known that damage to in-ground pipelines
can occur directly as a result of acts of nature such as
earthquakes and landslides, for example. ‘The damage result-
ing to in-ground pipelines as a result of the occurrence of
such acts typically occurs on a sufficiently large scale such
that multiple pipe joints are affected and detection of the
occurrence of such damage is relatively easy. Pipeline
damage can, however, occur due to the act of a third party,
1.e., a party other than the owner or operator of the pipeline.
Such damage is known as “third-party damage.” When the
damage due to an act of a third party causes an immediate
rupture of a pipe, little can be done via on-line monitoring
to prevent an ensuing incident. However, many third-party
contacts with pipelines can cause damage that does not
result in an immediate pipeline failure but rather can cause
damage that may, with time, lead to a pipe failure such as in
the form of a leak or a catastrophic rupture. For example,
time and pressure cycling to which a pipeline might nor-
mally be subjected may, with time, eventually lead to the
occurrence of such a pipeline failure, with such a pipeline
failure sometimes referred to as a “delayed failure.” In view
of the above, the occurrence of such third-party contact and
the effective detection thereof has proven to be a persistent
problem.

While sounds associated with contact with a pipeline can
be transmitted through the pipeline and detected at substan-
tial distances from the point of contact via highly sensitive
acoustic sensors, the high sensitivity of such sensors can
produce or result in a significant number of false calls arising
from sources other than by contact with the pipeline. For
example, sources such as passing vehicles and weather
conditions such as thunder and rain can produce or result in
false calls to a normal sound detection and monitoring
method and system.


-----------------------

US 10,802,136 B2 - 10802136 : There are multiple mentions to environment factors contain in our variables but all seem to be singular or less than 10 mentions

Most of this water loss is due to leakage from pipelines.
At present, three methods are used to identify leaks in the
pipeline infrastructure of utilities companies: 1) flow/pres-
sure meters located throughout the network, 2) walking
surveys that employ manual and/or analogue listening tools,
and 3) reports from water users (based on saturated soil or
unusually high water bills). Most of this information comes
from urban areas where flow meters and water users are
concentrated. Reported leaks in urban areas are thus typi-
cally reported and repaired within two weeks.

Leaking pipelines are more problematic in rural locations
where fewer people and flow meters are located. Leaks in
rural locations can go unreported and unrepaired for signifi-
cant periods of time. In some cases this can be as long as s1x
months, which can lead to significant losses of revenue for
utilities companies. These pipeline infrastructure networks
are widely distributed across landscapes, often traversing
difficult terrain that is infrequently visited.

Therefore, a system which monitors water networks for
indications of active leaks and landscape changes that could
cause a water network failure (e.g. soil expansion/contrac-
tion) is highly desirable.

The plurality of indirect indicators of leaks in the water
network can comprise an indicator of surface motion or
texture change derived based on the obtained set of SAR
data.

The method can further comprise creating a set of data
defining statistical relationships between soil moisture con-
tent SAR interferometric coherence variables and polarimet-
ric decomposition variables obtained from a calibration area
of the geographic region.

The detecting the one or more sub-surface leaks in the
water network can further comprise: integrating data of the
obtained set of SAR data using one or more interferometric
processes that quantify vertical terrain movement at one or
more locations within the geographic region corresponding
to locations of the water network; creating a time series
history using the vertical terrain movement at the one or 
more locations within the geographic region; and identify-
ing, based on the time series history, locations of the one or
more locations within the geographic region having vertical
terrain movement exceeding one or more threshold values.

According to a second aspect there is provided a method
for monitoring a water network, the method comprising:
obtaining, by a water network monitoring system, a set of
Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) data for a geographic
region; obtaining, by the water network monitoring system,
a set of optical data of the geographic region containing at
least a portion of the water network; generating, by the water
network monitoring system, an estimate of vegetation intru-
sion into the water network based at least in part on the
obtained set of optical data; monitoring, by the water net-
work monitoring system, an amount of terrain motion
around the water network based at least in part on one or
both of the obtained set of SAR data and the obtained set of
optical data; and generating, by the water network monitor-
ing system, a leakage risk index based at least in part on the
estimate of vegetation intrusion into the water network and
the monitoring of the amount of terrain motion around the
water network.

The generating the estimate of vegetation intrusion into
the water network can comprise: reading a set of data
defining one or more physical attributes for soil at one or
more depths and at the one or more locations along the water
network; reading a set of data defining one or more physical
attributes for one or more types of vegetation; classifying
vegetation at the one or more locations along the water
network based on the obtained set of optical data; and
generating an estimated amount of vegetation intrusion at
each of the one or more locations along the water network
based on the one or more physical attributes of the soil, and
the one or more physical attributes for a type of the classified
vegetation at each location.

The monitoring the amount of terrain motion around the
water network can comprise: integrating data of the obtained
set of SAR data using one or more interferometric processes
that quantify vertical terrain movement at one or more
locations within the geographic region corresponding to
locations of the water network; creating a time series history
using the vertical terrain movement at the one or more
locations within the geographic region; and identifying,
based on the time series history, locations of the one or more
locations within the geographic region having vertical ter-
rain movement exceeding one or more threshold values.

The generating the leakage risk index can further com-
prise: reading a set of data defining one or more threshold
values for each of the generated estimate of vegetation
intrusion into the water network and the amount of terrain
motion around the water network; and assigning a risk
category to one or more locations along the water network
based on a value for the generated estimate of vegetation
intrusion into the water network or a value for the amount of
terrain motion around the water network exceeding one or
more of the threshold values.

-----------------------

10865547 : 