(12)

(54)

(75)

(73)

(*)

(21)

(22)
(65)

(51)
(52)
(58)

(56)

United States Patent

Kechter et al.

IN-GROUND PIPELINE MONTTORING

George EK. Kechter, Marysville, OH
(US); Vangal K. Narendran,
Columbus, OH (US); Robert B.
Francini, Columbus, OH (US); Brian
N. Leis, Worthington, OH (US)

Inventors:

Gas Research Institute, Des Plaines,
IL (US)

Assignee:

Notice: Subject to any disclaimer, the term of this
patent is extended or adyusted under 35

US.C. 154(b) by 26 days.

Appl. No.: 09/798,693
Filed: Mar. 2, 2001
Prior Publication Data
US 2002/0149488 Al Oct. 17, 2002
Int. Cy.) ccc ccc ccccsssccccssseseceeeens GO1B 5/28
US. C1. cc ccc ccc cseesceeceeenseeeees 702/39; 702/51

Field of Search ................. 73/40.5 A; 166/250.03;

364/509; 702/39, 51

References Cited
U.S. PATENT DOCUMENTS

4,953,144 A 8/1990 Chin et al.

5,416,724 A * S/1995S Savic oo... ce ceccce cee ece ees 702/51
5,544,074 A * 8/1996 Suzuki et al. ................. 702/51

16
20

22

14

12

US0067356138B2

(10) Patent No.: US 6,785,618 B2

(45) Date of Patent: Aug. 31, 2004
5,744,700 A * 4/1998 Carme et al. ............ 73/40.5 A
5,974,862 A * 11/1999 Lander et al. ........... 73/40.5 A
6,371,204 Bl * 4/2002 Singh et al... 166/250.03

FOREIGN PATENT DOCUMENTS

EP O 444 200 9/1991
EP QO S552 044 7/1993
FR 2620720 3/1989
WO WO 87/07949 12/1987

OTHER PUBLICATIONS

R.B. Francini et al.: Final Report, Real-Time Monitoring to
Detect Third-Party Damage, Gas Research Institute, Mar.
1996.

R.B. Francini et al.: Final Report, Real-Time Monitoring to
Detect Third—Party Damage: Phase H, Gas Research Insti-
tute, Apr. 1997.

* cited by examiner

Primary Examiner—John Barlow
Assistant Examiner—Xiuqin Sun
(74) Attorney, Agent, or Firm—Mark E. Fejer

(57) ABSTRACT

A method for monitoring sound in an in-ground pipeline via
at least first and second in-ground acoustic sensors wherein
the first in-ground acoustic sensor is in contact with the
in-ground pipeline and the second in-ground acoustic sensor
is spaced from both the first in-ground acoustic sensor and
the in-ground pipeline.

20 Claims, 3 Drawing Sheets

10
24
54

i - Mt

42
36

---

US 6,785,618 B2

Sheet 1 of 3

Aug. 31, 2004

U.S. Patent

Ol

(AY

Old

of

2
vc

“iid
——— i.

cf

G¢

A

* » hs of Pp
SINS KLEE

d

02

92

v1

9

---

U.S. Patent Aug. 31, 2004 Sheet 2 of 3 US 6,785,618 B2

+} b=
y |
YY 8 *

<j
2
que

—=
— =

110

HIG. 2

128
126

=

114

---

U.S. Patent Aug. 31, 2004 Sheet 3 of 3 US 6,785,618 B2

212

t

210

212

214

---

US 6,735,618 B2

1
IN-GROUND PIPELINE MONTTORING

BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION

This invention relates generally to the monitoring of
pipelines and, more particularly, to the monitoring of sound
in an in-ground pipeline.

In-ground pipelines have found various uses. For example
and without unnecessary limitation, in-ground pipelines are
used extensively in the transmission of various materials
between selected points or locations. Natural gas is one
example of a material frequently transmitted via in-ground
pipelines.

As will be appreciated, there 1s a common need or desired
to be able to effectively monitor such below ground surface
transmissions such as to avoid or otherwise preclude the
occurrence of an accident or other improper conveyance of
the material being transmitted through the pipeline. For
example, there is a need and a demand for a monitoring
method that permits the detection of the status of such a
pipeline, such as the flow state of valves or other flow
control elements included in the pipeline system, without
undesirably interrupting or otherwise disrupting operation.

Further it is known that damage to in-ground pipelines
can occur directly as a result of acts of nature such as
earthquakes and landslides, for example. ‘The damage result-
ing to in-ground pipelines as a result of the occurrence of
such acts typically occurs on a sufficiently large scale such
that multiple pipe joints are affected and detection of the
occurrence of such damage is relatively easy. Pipeline
damage can, however, occur due to the act of a third party,
1.e., a party other than the owner or operator of the pipeline.
Such damage is known as “third-party damage.” When the
damage due to an act of a third party causes an immediate
rupture of a pipe, little can be done via on-line monitoring
to prevent an ensuing incident. However, many third-party
contacts with pipelines can cause damage that does not
result in an immediate pipeline failure but rather can cause
damage that may, with time, lead to a pipe failure such as in
the form of a leak or a catastrophic rupture. For example,
time and pressure cycling to which a pipeline might nor-
mally be subjected may, with time, eventually lead to the
occurrence of such a pipeline failure, with such a pipeline
failure sometimes referred to as a “delayed failure.” In view
of the above, the occurrence of such third-party contact and
the effective detection thereof has proven to be a persistent
problem.

While sounds associated with contact with a pipeline can
be transmitted through the pipeline and detected at substan-
tial distances from the point of contact via highly sensitive
acoustic sensors, the high sensitivity of such sensors can
produce or result in a significant number of false calls arising
from sources other than by contact with the pipeline. For
example, sources such as passing vehicles and weather
conditions such as thunder and rain can produce or result in
false calls to a normal sound detection and monitoring
method and system.

In view of the consequences of the failure of an in-ground
pipeline due to third-party contact, particularly when
coupled with the extensive construction related with urban
expansion and encroachment of the right-of-way commonly
associated with many of such in-ground pipelines, there is a
need and a demand for a method and system for monitoring
in-ground pipelines and, in particular, detecting contact with
a pipeline and proactively warn of the potential for the
occurrence of damage associated therewith. In particular,

10

15

20

25

30

35

40

4S

50

55

60

65

2

there is a need and a demand for a reliable acoustic moni-
toring method and system that can effectively eliminate false
calls such as may arise from at least certain noncontact
events.

SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION

A general object of the invention is to provide an
improved method and system for the monitoring of sound in
an in-ground pipeline and the use thereof, such as for the
detection of contact with such an in-ground pipeline.

Amore specific objective of the invention is to overcome
one or more of the problems described above.

The general object of the invention can be attained, at
least in part, through a method for monitoring sound in an
in-ground pipeline involving the processing of at least one
first signal received from at least one first in-ground acoustic
sensor and at least one second signal received from at least
one associated second in-ground acoustic sensor, wherein
the first in-ground acoustic sensor is in contact with the
in-ground pipeline and the at least one associated second
in-ground acoustic sensor is spaced from both the first
in-ground acoustic sensor and the in-ground pipeline.

The prior art has generally failed to provide a method and
system for the monitoring of sound in an in-ground pipeline
in a manner that is as effective as may be desired. In
particular, the prior art has generally failed to provide a
method and system for the monitoring of an in-ground
pipeline in a sufficiently unintrusive and effective manner
such as to permit the detection of contact with the pipeline
and proactively warn of the potential for the occurrence of
damage associated with such contact while also minimizing
or avoiding the occurrence of false signals such as may
result from at least certain noncontact events with the
pipeline of interest.

The invention further comprehends a method for detect-
ing contact with a pipeline in the ground. In accordance with
one embodiment of the invention, such method includes:

detecting an acoustic parameter associated with the pipe-
line and transmitting a corresponding first input signal to a
processor;

detecting an acoustic parameter associated with the
eround adjacent the pipeline and transmitting a correspond-
ing second input signal to the processor; and

comparing the first and second input signals in the pro-
cessor in accordance with at least one signal comparison
technique to produce a product signal as a function of the
difference between the first and second input signal.

In accordance with another embodiment of the invention,
a method for detecting contact with an in-ground pipeline
includes:

receiving in a processor a first input signal from at least
one first in-ground accelerometer and at least one second
input signal from at least one associated second in-ground
accelerometer, wherein the first in-ground accelerometer is
in contact with an in-ground pipeline and the at least one
associated second in-ground accelerometer 1s spaced from
both the first in-ground sensor and the in-ground pipeline;
and

processing the first input signal and the at least one second
input signal in the processor on at least one basis selected
from the group consisting of time analysis, frequency analy-
sis and a combination thereof to produce an output signal as
a function of the difference between the first input signal and
the second input signal.

Other objects and advantages will be apparent to those
skilled in the art from the following detailed description
taken in conjunction with the appended claims and draw-
ings.

---

US 6,735,618 B2

3
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS

FIG. 1 a simplified schematic of a system for monitoring,
sound in an in-ground pipeline in accordance with one
preferred embodiment of the invention.

FIG. 2 is a simplified block diagram showing the moni-
toring of sound in an in-ground pipeline in accordance with
one preferred embodiment of the invention.

FIG. 3 a simplified fragmentary schematic of an
in-ground pipeline with multiple acoustic sensors in accor-
dance with one preferred embodiment of the invention.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE
INVENTION

The present invention provides an improved method and
system for the monitoring sound in an in-ground pipeline
and the use thereof, such as for the detection of contact, e.g.,
third-party contact, with such an in-ground pipeline. As
detailed below, the sound monitoring method and system of
the invention is particularly helpful and effective in mini-
mizing or avoiding the occurrence of false signals such as
may result from at least certain noncontact events with the
pipeline of interest.

The present invention may be embodied in a variety of
structures and be practiced in a variety of manners. As
representative, FIG. 1 illustrates the present invention as
embodied in a system, generally designated by the reference
numeral 10, for the monitoring of sound in an in-ground
pipeline 12 in accordance with one preferred embodiment of
the invention.

It will be understood that while the invention described
hereinafter has general applicability to the monitoring of
sound in various in-ground pipelines, the invention is
believed to at least initially have particular utility in the
detection of contact, such as by a third party for example,
with a pipeline in the ground. Further, while the invention is
generally applicable to such monitoring of in-ground
pipelines, the invention 1s believed to at least initially have
further particular utility for use in conjunction with those
pipelines used for the transmission of a gaseous medium
such as a natural gas stream, for example.

The pipeline 12 1s in-ground, e.g., includes a portion 14
below the ground surface 16. As identified above, a common
concern and persistent problem relative to in-ground pipe-
lines is the occurrence of third-party contact with an
in-ground pipeline. Of particular concern is the occurrence
of such third-party contact that may go unreported and such
as, though not resulting in an immediate pipeline failure,
may with time, result in a failure such as in the form of a leak
or rupture.

The system 10 is generally composed of a first acoustic
sensor 20, a second acoustic sensor 22 and a signal condi-
tioning and processing unit 24. As shown, the first acoustic
sensor 20 is placed in-ground, e.g., under the ground surface
16, and is in contact with the in-ground pipeline 12. The
second acoustic sensor 22 1s also placed in-ground, e.g.,
under the ground surface 16. The second acoustic sensor 22
is desirably spaced from both the first in-ground acoustic
sensor 20 and the in-ground pipeline 12. In accordance with
a preferred practice of the invention and as detailed below,
the inclusion and presence of at least one such second
in-ground acoustic sensor, spaced from both the first
in-ground acoustic sensor and the in-ground pipeline acous-
tic sensor can substantially reduce or eliminate the occur-
rence of false signals such as may result from at least certain
noncontact events with the pipeline of interest.

10

15

20

25

30

35

40

4S

50

55

60

65

4

As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art and
eulded by the teachings herein provided, various acoustic
sensors such as capable of or useful in the detecting or
monitoring, of various or selected acoustic parameters such
as relating to or resulting from pipeline vibrations are
available and can, if desired, be used in the practice of the
invention. For example, and without necessarily limiting the
broader practice of the invention, acoustic sensors such as in
the form of accelerometers, microphones or strain gauges
can, if desired, be used. In view of the existence of substan-
tial experience with the handling and use of accelerometers,
the use of such devices may be preferred.

The acoustic sensors 20 and 22 are each in signal trans-
mitting communication with the signal conditioning and
processing unit 24 such as via the signal transmission lines
26 and 30, respectively. Alternatively, one or more of the
acoustic sensors 20 and 22 can, if desired, be in wireless
signal transmitting communication with the signal condi-
tioning and processing unit 24, such as in a manner known
to those skilled in the art and guided by the teachings herein
provided. Thus, it is to be understood that the broader
practice of the invention is not necessarily limited by the
means or fashion of the signal transmission.

At the signal conditioning and processing unit 24, the
signals from each of the acoustic sensors 20 and 22 are
passed to a signal conditioner, represented by the reference
numeral 32. In or as a result of the signal conditioner 24, the
signals from each of the acoustic sensors 20 and 22 are
converted into an appropriate voltage, current or other
readable signal and, if further desired, amplified.

At the signal conditioning and processing umt 24, the
conditioned signals from each of the acoustic sensors 20 and
22 can then be appropriately processed such as via one or
more processing analysis or technique in a processor 34,
such as in the manner described in greater detail below, to
produce or form an appropriate corresponding warning
signal or message. For example, in FIG. 1, the processor 34
produces a warning signal or message such as communi-
cated via the line 36 to a phone 40. The phone 40 in turn is
shown as in wireless communication (as represented by the
dashed line 42) with a remotely located phone 44 where
there 1s a capability to appropriately respond to the warning
signal/message. As will be appreciated by those skilled in
the art and guided by the teachings herein provided, other
forms and means of signal communication can, if desired, be
utilized and the broader practice of the invention is to be
understood as not limited to particular or specific forms or
means of signal communication.

As identified above, the signals from each of the acoustic
sensors 20 and 22 can be appropriately processed such as via
one or more processing analysis or technique in the proces-
sor 34 to produce or form an appropriate corresponding
signal. For example and in accordance with one preferred
embodiment of the invention, the signals are appropriately
processed such as to produce or form a signal that indicates
or corresponds to the pipeline having been subjected to a
contact of sufficient predetermined intensity, as provided for
by the selected processing analysis or techniques.

Those skilled in the art and guided by the teachings herein
provided will appreciate that various processing analysis or
techniques, either alone or 1n various selected combinations,
can be used in the practice of the invention. For example and
not necessarily limiting to the broader practice of the
invention, such processing analysis or techniques may in
accordance with one preferred embodiment of the invention
involve processing of the signals from each of the acoustic

---

US 6,735,618 B2

5

sensors 20 and 22 on at least one basis selected from the
eroup consisting of time analysis, frequency analysis and a
combination thereof. Further, such processing analysis or
techniques may in accordance with another preferred
embodiment of the invention involve processing of the
signals from each of the acoustic sensors 20 and 22 on at
least two bases selected from the group consisting of time
analysis, frequency analysis and a combination thereof. In
yet another preferred embodiment of the invention, such
processing analysis or techniques may involve processing of
the signals from each of the acoustic sensors 20 and 22 based
on time analysis, frequency analysis and a combination
thereof. As will be appreciated, through the use of 2 or more
of such basis of signal analysis the possibility of false signals
can be further significantly reduced or eliminated.

While various forms or types of time or frequency analy-
sis can be used in the practice of the invention, the invention
will be further herein described with reference to the utili-
zation of a “root-mean-square” (“RMS”) form of such
analysis of the time signal and/or a portion of the Power
Spectral Density (“PSD”), such as based on known control
analysis.

Time Domain RMS:

In this form of analysis, the equation representation (1) from
below is used to differentiate between those sound signals
that relate to the in-ground pipeline (such as by contact) and
those sound signals that relate to the surrounding
environment, e.g., ground in which the pipeline is buried.

(1)

i=

where,

the signals from the sensor on the pipe and from the
sensor spaced from the pipe each contain n points,

xon,, 1=1 to n 1s the signal from the sensor on the pipe,
xolf,,1=1 to nis the signal from the sensor off the pipe, and

B is a predetermined threshold value less than 1 (one).
In this form of analysis, when the inequality representation
of equation (1) holds true, then the subject sound signals
relate to the in-ground pipeline rather than to the surround-
ing environment, e.g., ground in which the pipeline is
buried. Thus, in accordance with a preferred embodiment of
the invention, such sound signals correlate or correspond to
contact with the in-ground pipeline.

Frequency Domain RMS:

In this form of analysis, the sound signals from the sensor on
the pipe and from the sensor spaced from the pipe are
transformed using the Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) in the
following manner:

n 5k (2)
Xon, = > xon; eI 7

i=]

Xoff, = >, xoff eins (3)

where,
k=1 to n,
both Xon, and Xoff, are complex numbers, and
each k of the transform is associated with a frequency.

10

15

20

25

30

35

40

4S

50

55

60

65

6
The PSD of the signals is defined by:

XPon, = «f Xon,- Xon;

(4)

XPoff, = «| Xoff, - Xoff; 9)
where,
Xon ,* is the complex conjugate of Xon, and

Xotf ,* 1s the complex conjugate of Xotf,.
Only certain frequencies of interest are used from the PSD,
herein referred to as the range 1=a to £, then the signal is
determined to be a contact if the following is true:

B
X Poff?
i=
B
| S’ XPon?
i=

where I’ is a predetermined value less than 1 (one).
Time-frequency (Wavelet) Analysis:

In this form of analysis, the data obtained from the sensors
using different time and frequency scales is used such as to
produce or result in a 2x2 matrix of the amplitudes of the
data.

An event like an impact to the pipeline can have a
signature that has a unique pattern of values when viewed in
this manner. The algorithm looks for this unique signature
by comparing the values in the time-frequency values
formed by the matrix with standard or established values
such as found in a corresponding table. If the pattern of
time-frequency values are similar, then the signal is desig-
nated as an impact.

Voting Scheme

If desired, in those methods in accordance with the invention
wherein signals are processed on at least two bases selected
from the group consisting of time analysis, frequency analy-
sis and a combination thereof (e.g., time-frequency
(wavelet) analysis), a weighted voting scheme can be
applied thereto. For example, once analysis has determined
using the above methods that a signal is in the pipeline or is
not, it is given a value of 1 for a yes and O for no. Each of
the analysis techniques 1s also given a weight determined by
the overall confidence in the methods to be able to detect the
signal of interest. The sum of the weights must add to one.
Then the following equation can be used to determine if the
signal is one that is in the pipeline:

(6)

<[

(7)

SWZ > K

i=]

where,
K is a predetermined threshold,
W. 1s the weighting for each scheme,
Z,, 1s the result of each of the analysis such that each Z, has
a value of either 0 or 1, and
i=] to 3
and where,
if the relationship (7) holds true, then the signal is in the
pipeline and
if the relationship (7) does not hold true, then the signal
is not in the pipeline.
Turning now to FIG. 2, there is illustrated a simplified
block diagram processing schematic, generally designated

---

US 6,735,618 B2

7

110, showing the monitoring of sound in an in-ground
pipeline in accordance with one preferred embodiment of
the invention. In accordance with the processing schematic
110, a signal 112 in the in-ground pipe is passed or received,
represented by the line 114, to or by a first in-ground
acoustic sensor 116 which is in contact with the pipe.
Similarly, a signal 120 in the ground adjacent the pipe of
interest 1s passed or received, represented by the line 122, to
or by a second in-ground acoustic sensor 124 which, in
accordance with a preferred embodiment of the invention 1s
spaced from both the first in-ground acoustic sensor and the
in-ground pipeline.

A signal from each of the sensors 116 and 124, repre-
sented by the lines 126 and 128, respectively, can then, if
desired and as shown, be forwarded or advanced to appro-
priate signal conditioners, as identified above, and here
designated by the reference numeral 130 and 132, respec-
tively. The signal conditioners 130 and 132 each then
forward an appropriately conditioned signal 134 and 136,
respectively to signal analysis 140, such as described above
and such as in a processor.

It the warning conditions of the signal processing analysis
are satisfied, then a warning is issued or other appropriate
signal sent, as represented by the line 142, such at to the
control box 144.

While the invention has been described above making
specific reference to a system and method having one first
in-ground acoustic sensor in contact with the in-ground
pipeline and one associated second in-ground acoustic sen-
sor spaced from both the first in-ground acoustic sensor and
the in-ground pipeline, the broader practice of the invention
is not necessarily so limited. For example, turning to FIG. 3
there is illustrated a system fragmentary portion, designated
by the reference numeral 210, of an in-ground pipeline 212.
The fragmentary portion 210 includes two first in-ground
acoustic sensors 214 and 216, each in contact with the
in-ground pipeline 212. ‘Two second in-ground acoustic
sensors 220 and 222, respectively, are associated with the
first in-ground acoustic sensor 214 and are each spaced from
both the first in-ground acoustic sensor 214 and the
in-ground pipeline 212. Similarly, two second in-ground
acoustic sensors 224 and 226, respectively, are associated
with the first in-ground acoustic sensor 216 and are each
spaced from both the first in-ground acoustic sensor 216 and
the in-ground pipeline 212.

Those skilled in the art and guided by the teachings herein
provided will appreciate that through the inclusion of mul-
tiple first in-ground acoustic sensors in contact with the
in-ground pipeline having at least one associated second
in-ground acoustic sensor spaced from both the respective
first in-ground acoustic sensor and the in-ground pipeline,
the effective monitoring of extended lengths of pipeline,
such as in a continuous fashion, can be facilitated. In
addition, while the inclusion of multiple associated second
in-ground acoustic sensors for a first sensor in contact with
the pipeline can be helpful in reducing the likelihood of a
false signal, it will be appreciated that associated factors
such as relating to cost and increased control complexity
may in practice favor the use or employment of a single
associated second sensor, spaced from both the first
in-ground acoustic sensor and the in-ground pipeline, for a
respective first in-ground acoustic sensor in contact with the
in-ground pipeline.

While the invention has been described above as having
particular utility in conjunction with the monitoring of
in-ground pipelines such convey or transmit a gaseous
medium such as a natural gas stream, it will be understood

10

15

20

25

30

35

40

4S

50

55

60

65

S

by those skilled in the art and guided by the teachings herein
provided that the broader practice of the invention is not
necessarily so limited. For example, if desired, the invention
can be practiced in conjunction with a pipeline which
conveys or transmits a material such as having a ditferent
selected fluid form such as a liquid, for example.

Further, while the invention has been described above
making specific reference to the detection of contact, e.¢g.,
such as by a third party, with an in-ground pipeline, it will
be understood that the broader practice of the invention is
not necessarily so limited. In particular, and without unnec-
essarily limiting the practice of the invention, either or both
the method and system of the invention can be applied to the
detection of other kinds or types of sounds such as may be
transmitted through an in-ground pipeline and such as may
be desired or found useful in the monitoring of such
in-ground pipelines. For example, the sound monitoring and
detection method and system of the invention can, if desired,
be applied to monitoring or detecting the state (e.g., open or
closed condition) of a valve or other flow control element
within the pipeline.

Thus, the invention provides a method and system for the
monitoring of sound in an in-ground pipeline in a more
effective manner than otherwise previously known or dis-
closed. In particular, the invention provides a method and
system for the monitoring of an in-ground pipeline such as
to permit the detection of contact with the pipeline and
proactively warn of the potential for the occurrence of
damage associated with such contact, which method and
system can operate in a manner which is both more unin-
trusive and effective than previously available.

The invention illustratively disclosed herein suitably may
be practiced in the absence of any element, part, step,
component, or ingredient which is not specifically disclosed
herein.

While in the foregoing detailed description this invention
has been described in relation to certain preferred embodi-
ments thereof, and many details have been set forth for
purposes of illustration, it will be apparent to those skilled
in the art that the invention is susceptible to additional
embodiments and that certain of the details described herein
can be varied considerably without departing from the basic
principles of the invention.

What is claimed is:

1. In a method for monitoring sound in an in-ground
pipeline, the improvement comprising:

processing at least one first signal received from at least

one first in-ground acoustic sensor and at least one
second signal received from at least one associated
second in-ground acoustic sensor, wherein the first
in-ground acoustic sensor is in contact with the
in-ground pipeline and the at least one associated
second in-ground acoustic sensor 1s spaced from both
the first in-ground acoustic sensor and the in-ground
pipeline.

2. The method of claim 1 wherein the at least one first
signal results from contact with the in-ground pipeline.

3. The method of claim 1 wherein the at least one first
in-ground acoustic sensor 1s an accelerometer.

4. The method of claim 1 wherein the at least one
associated second in-ground acoustic sensor is an acceler-
ometer.

5. The method of claim 1 wherein at least one second
signal is received from each of a plurality of associated
second in-ground acoustic sensors, wherein each of the
plurality of associated second in-ground acoustic sensors 1S
spaced from the at least one first in-ground acoustic sensor,
the in-ground pipeline and from each other.

---

US 6,735,618 B2

9

6. The method of claim 1 wherein the at least one first
signal and the at least one second signal are processed on at
least one basis selected from the group consisting of time
analysis, frequency analysis and a combination thereof.

7. The method of claim 6 wherein the at least one first
signal and the at least one second signal are processed on at
least two bases selected from the group consisting of time
analysis, frequency analysis and a combination thereof.

8. The method of claim 7 wherein the at least one first
signal and the at least one second signal are processed based
on time analysis, frequency analysis and a combination
thereof.

9. The method of claim 1 providing a continuous moni-
toring of the in-ground pipeline.

10. The method of claim 1 wherein the in-ground pipeline
transmits a gaseous medium.

11. The method of claim 10 wherein the in-ground pipe-
line transmits a natural gas stream.

12. The method of claim 1 comprising the processing of
at least one first signal received from at least one of a
plurality of the first in-ground acoustic sensors and at least
one second signal received from at least one second
in-ground acoustic sensor associated with the at least one of
a plurality of the first in-ground acoustic sensors from which
the at least one first signal 1s received.

13. A method for detecting contact with a pipeline in the
eround, the method comprising:

detecting an acoustic parameter associated with the pipe-
line using a first in-ground acoustic sensor in contact
with the pipeline and transmitting a corresponding first
input signal to a processor;

detecting an acoustic parameter associated with the
eround adjacent the pipeline using a second in-ground
acoustic sensor spaced from both the pipeline and the
first in-ground acoustic sensor and transmitting a cor-
responding second input signal to the processor; and
comparing the first and second input signals in the
processor in accordance with at least one signal com-
parison technique to produce a product signal as a
function of the difference between the first and second
input signal.

10

15

20

25

30

35

40

10

14. A The method of claim 13 wherein at least one of the
first in-ground acoustic sensor and the second in-ground
acoustic sensor 1s an accelerometer.

15. The method of claim 13 wherein the first and second
input signals are compared on at least one basis selected
from the group consisting of time analysis, frequency analy-
sis and a combination thereof.

16. The method of claim 15 wherein the first and second
input signals are compared on at least two bases selected
from the group consisting of time analysis, frequency analy-
sis and a combination thereof.

17. The method of claim 16 wherein the first and the
second input signals are compared based on time analysis,
frequency analysis and a combination thereof.

18. A method for detecting contact with an in-ground
pipeline, the method comprising:

receiving in a processor a first input signal from at least

one first in-ground accelerometer and at least one
second input signal from at least one associated second
in-ground accelerometer, wherein the first in-ground
accelerometer is in contact with an in-ground pipeline
and the at least one associated second in-ground accel-
erometer is spaced from both the first in-ground sensor
and the in-ground pipeline; and

processing the first input signal and the at least one second

input signal in the processor on at least one basis
selected from the group consisting of time analysis,
frequency analysis and a combination thereof to pro-
duce an output signal as a function of the difference
between the first input signal and the second input
signal.

19. The method of claim 18 wherein the first input signal
and the at least one second input signal are compared on at
least two bases selected from the group consisting of time
analysis, frequency analysis and a combination thereof.

20. The method of claim 19 wherein the first input signal
and the at least one second input signal are compared based
on time analysis, frequency analysis and a combination
thereof.